>> From what my mom
tells me, it just seems--
>> Revolting.
[GIGGLES]
>> Oh no, it just seems like you
don't really get to choose much
if you have it in a hospital,
and the midwives or the nurses
just come and go.
>> I want a boy and two girls.
>> You can't choose that.
>> I want one.
[GIGGLES]
>> - [Woman] Blanche, where
would you have your babies?
>> Home.
>> I'd have my babies
in the doctor's.
[LAUGHTER]
>> You know, you hear
people preparing for birth,
and they've got the aromatherapy
and all this sort of stuff.
Whereas for me, to be honest,
if there were 50 people there,
so long as they were quiet,
right, and just gave me I
suppose physical space,
I think I would be OK.
But people are really
different, like what they want
and that thing.
I could have had-- like
aromatherapy shmoma-- you know,
it wouldn't have made any
difference to me really.
Like it's just such
an animal thing.
We chose to live here because
Peter and I both needed
to have studio space because we
both had art craft practices.
Peter's a sculptor, and I
had my shoe-making business.
And also we really
wanted to work and live
in the same environment
because it just gives you
that flexibility
of when you work
and if you're really
going with something
that you can keep going.
Always really, really talented
at what I did with my hands
and to the point that my mom
bought me a sewing machine
when I was eight years old
for my eighth birthday,
actually attempted to make
my first pair of shoes
when I was about 16.
A complete disaster,
but I had a go--
no teaching, nobody to tell
me what to do, just had a go.
People say, why don't
you do handbags or belts?
And it's like I don't wake
up in the middle of the night
thinking about handbags.
Shoes are just on my
radar all the time.
I'm always noticing them.
It's just something
I've just attuned to.
And because there's really only
one entrance to this building
it just means that sometimes you
have people around for dinner,
they're leaving at 3
o'clock in the morning,
and then they want to
look at your shoes.
And it's like, you
know, just go away.
I'm not interested, you know?
Like no matter how passionate
you are about what you do,
there are times when you really
want to be able to turn off.
When I was really young,
like when I was a teenager,
I knew I wanted
to have children.
So any articles in the
paper that ever came up
about birthing issues--
I read every single
one, and I still do.
I didn't want to be in hospital.
I didn't like hospitals.
I thought that
hospitals are where
you go when you're really sick.
Maybe there's a
sort of morbidness,
morbidity about hospitals.
So I became pregnant,
and I finally
found a list of midwives.
And I rang a few just
to arrange to meet them.
And then I had a miscarriage.
And I rang up to cancel
a couple of appointments,
and one of them rang
me back that afternoon.
And she just got on
the phone and she
said, are you all right?
Are you OK?
And it was the first person
who'd actually asked me that.
Like I'd gone through seeing
the doctors and everything,
and it was just like
you go in there,
and it's this cold process.
And I was just--
I was devastated.
And she just rang me up and
said, oh, you poor thing.
Are you OK, especially
given the fact
you've gone through this
whole process of days
and days of finding out people
and making appointments?
And she was just so incredibly
right for that situation
that from there I just knew
that when I got pregnant again
that I had to have her.
>> Do you know where
you guys were born?
>> I was born there.
>> No--
>> --not exactly, not exactly.
You were born right
where that cup of tea is.
>> I started having I suppose
what felt like little period
pains during the day, but
I didn't think much of them
because I was a few days early.
And then I think my dad came
round and had a cup of tea.
And while he was there I
went down to the toilet,
and my waters broke,
not a huge gush.
It must have been the
hind waters or something.
And I didn't say
anything to him.
I let him go.
And then I said to Peter,
well, my waters just broke.
And he just collapsed.
I got Peter to go out and
get DVDs and maybe some food
and a bottle of
wine or something.
And the minute he
stepped out of the door,
the pains just started
coming quite strong
so that when he came back
I was really in labor.
And so he rang the midwives.
And they came, and I just
threw myself around a lot,
like holding onto
the back of chairs
and just throwing myself around
and being incredibly physical
and really, really noisy.
And where we were living,
we had a 22-year-old--
he was just about to turn
22-year-old-- boy living
downstairs.
And it was his birthday party.
And he'd arranged
to have his birthday
party at the warehouse,
and being 22,
hadn't even thought-- we'd told
him, look, Johanna's in labor.
But he hadn't thought to stick
a sign on the door saying,
meet you at the
pub, or anything.
So as the labor progressed,
every now and again
there'd be this awful
heavy metal music coming up
from downstairs.
And we'd have to tell them
to go, just like, shut
the fuck up, and make them go.
Somebody had to go downstairs
and tell them to turn the music
down, turn the music down.
I mean, lots of those
sort of moments of I
don't want to do this
anymore and I can't, I
can't do it anymore.
I can't do it anymore.
And Annie's going,
no, no, no, no.
No, no, that means your
baby's really close.
And there's also
that surreal moment
where you're still going through
the throes of all these pains,
but they're unwrapping things
and putting them on the floor,
like your birthing--
oh, I forget what they
call it, but where
you've got a freshly
ironed clean sheet that's
been wrapped up in brown paper.
And underneath that
you put an old shower
curtain or lots of
plastic, so it's
like your little launch pad.
So they were unwrapping
everything, getting the nail
brush out so they
can scrub their nails
and do all that sort of stuff.
So there's this
thing of, oh, OK.
It's going to be
happening really soon.
But I'm still--
I just don't feel
like I'm there.
And then I just--
and then Peter held
me from behind,
and I sort of squatted
down and pushed her out
with a scream that I reckon must
have woken up the whole street.
You feel like you're just being
opened up from right around,
that sort of thing.
I mean, I don't think I had
a tiny tear, but nothing bad.
But especially getting
the first one out
is a pretty intense feeling.
And yeah, had this
little baby who came out
with a squashed little nose.
Yeah, she cried.
And it's funny for the first--
I don't know, until
they're about four,
every time they cry,
it's that little
face that they're born with.
It's like they go back to that
absolute newborn baby face.
You can see that sort of
essence of what they were born
like when they have a howl.
There were moments in
the labor where I'd just
be really all over the place.
And Annie just came and
she looked me in the eyes.
And she touched me in
the forehead like that,
and she said center
yourself, Joanna.
And it would just be
the most amazing--
like nothing else
would be there.
Somehow my headspace was in
outer space or somewhere else,
you know, this really
powerful thing.
And most of the time Annie
sat there and knitted,
just watching.
So she was there.
She knew where I was at.
But she wasn't-- you know, she
was only really on with me when
it was really obvious to her
that I needed somebody to come
and take charge.
When I was pregnant
with Anushka,
it turned out that I
wouldn't be able to have
the same midwife that I'd had
for the first two children.
And that was really
hard for both of us.
I know she felt really strongly
that she wanted to be there.
But she was moving
into state, and it just
wasn't going to
be able to happen.
And there was maybe
a period of, oh,
if I can't have Annie,
who am I going to have?
And oh, maybe I should just
go to have it in hospital.
And honestly, I just can't.
It sort of entered my brain.
And as quickly as it
entered, it was like I just
can't do it that way.
I just can't.
Blanche, the middle child,
was a two-hour labor--
really, really, really intense.
I'd been having those on and
off Braxton Hicks contractions
for maybe a couple of days even.
And then with Anushka I
started getting Braxton Hicks
contractions at about
20 weeks, so it was just
almost this constant-- and
they were very regular,
and they would take
your breath away.
So every now and again, even
from 32 weeks, I'd be thinking,
oh my god, I'm just
about to go into labor.
So I just kept working the
day that I was having Anushka.
And I'm having
these contractions,
and they're sort of like Braxton
Hicks, Braxton Hicks, Braxton
Hicks.
And then I went, oh, hang on.
And I really wanted
to finish this job
I was doing because I just knew
that if the glue got completely
dry, everything would get stiff.
And it'd be very, very hard
to do three weeks later.
I thought, oh yeah,
maybe I'd better just
go do it in the house
and see what's happening.
And then I went to the toilet
and had one of those huge shits
that you have before-- you
know when you just, like, boom.
I think I came out
of the bathroom,
and I had one really
big contraction.
And I just said, oh my
god, if the rest of it's
going to be like
this and I'm going
to be doing this for two hours,
I don't think I can take it.
Blanche, she was
jumping around the house
because she was three,
three and a bit.
She was playing crocodiles,
like jumping off
from one bit of
furniture to the other
so the crocodile didn't get you.
And I had to say,
look, just stop it.
Just stop it.
And she's going, why are
you taking your clothes off?
And I was just taking
my clothes off, just
instinctually doing this stuff.
And then I think
Peter came back,
and he'd told all
the staff to go home.
Yeah, and he'd said, I'm
ringing her just to make sure
she's coming in.
And by that stage, I'm like,
oh my god, I want to push.
It was just so fast.
I had maybe like five of
those horrible, horrible
contractions, like oh
my god, I want to push,
and then as soon as I
got the pushing urge,
the waters broke in a huge
big gush full of meconium.
And I said, oh there's
meconium in the waters.
And by this time, he was on
the phone to the midwife.
And she had gotten--
it was like there's all these
one-way streets around here,
so he had to direct
her how to get here.
And so she just said, look,
put her on her hands and knees.
Put her bum up in the air,
and make her count backwards
from 100 or something.
Just whatever,
just distract her.
She can't have the
baby until I get here.
And she said go and have
Beatrice at the front door
waiting for me.
>> I went up to get the midwife
from the door, and I thought--
because mummy was
yelling so much,
I thought it was like a
junkie out on the street.
>> I was, like, counting,
ten, like screaming at the top
of my voice, roaring
like a caged animal.
She only just got here in time.
And she ran down into the house.
And I said, can I push?
And she said, yes.
And I put my hand in,
and I pushed her out
into my own hand.
I'd learned the hand
trick from having Blanche.
She just made sure that
there was no meconium
in any of her passages.
And then Anushka
just looked around.
And we're like oh, it's a girl.
Because we were so sure
we're going to have a boy.
And then she just looked
around and went to sleep.